[SWOOSH]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Paul Perry's with us, a "New
York Times" best-selling
author who has written more than
15 books just on the subject
of near-death experiences.
He's also a
documentary filmmaker
and a darn good
one with the goal
of making media that matters.
And you are doing that, Paul.
>>PAUL PERRY: I'm working on it.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
How'd you get
started in all this?
>>PERRY: In writing?
>>NOORY: Writing itself.
>>PERRY: I started
out as I wanted
to be a marine biologist,
and I was going to college.
And I was in a summer
class, and I had a--
I was doing a fish experiment.
And my professor at the time--
I had to turn in a paper.
He read the paper and he
said, this is really good,
you should start writing.
And--
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>PERRY: So I had
nothing to do, and I just
wrote a couple of articles
for "The Arizona Republic,"
and I made some money.
And there's-- nothing
motivates a writer like money.
And so I just kept
writing and kept selling.
And then I just set
a plan for my life,
how I wanted to get
to be a book author.
>>NOORY: And you're partners
with Dannion Brinkley
on a project?
>>PERRY: That's correct.
We're working on a
project, a TV project.
>>NOORY: You talk about
near-death experiences three
times for the poor guy, right?
>>PERRY: Yeah.
That's right.
>>NOORY: Zapped by lightning
and everything else.
>>PERRY: I'll tell you.
I didn't realize how many
people are struck by lightning.
Like, hundreds of people.
And I always thought, well,
Danny was one of the few
that had been, but
in fact, not at all.
>>NOORY: You've got a
book with Raymond Moody,
and I think the
world of that guy.
>>PERRY: Yeah, I think
the world of Raymond too.
I have five books with
Raymond, and this will be--
>>NOORY: That's the
cover of it, right?
>>PERRY: That's it.
This will be the
fifth book, I believe.
>>NOORY: "7 Reasons to
Believe in Life after Life."
Were you always a believer
in the other side?
>>PERRY: You know, I spent a
lot of years not even thinking
about it.
And then I started to think
more and more about it,
and I thought, well, I don't
know that this can be possible.
And then I was
introduced to Raymond.
I was asked to write
a book for Raymond.
>>NOORY: He'll change your mind.
>>PERRY: And he will.
He's such a pleasant person,
and he doesn't push anything.
He just says, this is how it is,
and you can believe it or not.
>>NOORY: I had my doubts years
ago about life after death.
I sometimes-- part of me
figured this dark end of life,
this is it.
It's over.
But then listening to people
like Raymond Moody and Dannion
Brinkley, I began to think, no.
There's got to be
something to this.
This is not just coincidental.
I don't believe in coincidences.
It's not accidental.
>>PERRY: Right.
>>NOORY: There's
something going on there.
I'm now a staunch believer
in the other side.
>>PERRY: I'm a staunch
believer-- pretty much
a staunch believer now.
If I had to assign
it from 1 to 100,
I would probably say I'm a 90%--
90% believer.
>>NOORY: That's very high.
>>PERRY: That's pretty high.
Yeah.
But there's always doubt.
There's always doubt
with this, because it's
a very difficult subject, to
come up with 100% proof on.
>>NOORY: What came first,
us or the other side?
>>PERRY: Wow.
I would say the other side
would almost have to be first.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>PERRY: Because someone
created all of this stuff.
I know the current science
says that it just happened,
and it happened in certain ways.
I keep hearing things about
lightning striking boulders
and creating a living form.
The living form over billions of
years becomes us, sitting here.
But that's hard-- that's
harder for me to believe
than a, if you will, creation.
>>NOORY: What do you think
the afterlife is, Paul?
>>PERRY: It's very
hard to define.
I mean, I do--
I do believe we were created.
I do believe--
I'll call it God, because
I don't know whether--
>>NOORY: For lack of a
better phrase, I guess.
>>PERRY: Sure, that
we are created by God.
I have no idea what Heaven--
I do have an idea of
what Heaven looks like--
>>NOORY: Or Hell?
>>PERRY: I do have an idea
with that-- what that looks
like as well, because through
near-death experiences, which
are considered
gateway experiences,
meaning that you
can go to the-- you
can go to the gates of Heaven,
but you can't go beyond.
That's how it is with
near-death experiences.
So you hear people
describe Heaven.
And I've heard so many
people describe Heaven
that I am inclined
to believe that that
is what Heaven looks like.
But what God has planned
for us, I have no idea.
>>NOORY: Paul, what
do you think is
one of the biggest convincing
arguments for the existence
of the other side?
What's out there?
>>PERRY: Well, I
mean, we touch it--
we deal with that in
this book, but what's
out there on the other
side, I don't have any idea.
I mean, I'm sorry to say that.
I just-- I should have
developed a pat answer by now,
but I don't have one.
And I also know
that Raymond rarely
can express a pat answer.
He says, I do believe in God.
I do believe that
God created us.
I do believe he
has a plan for us,
but I don't know
what that plan is.
>>NOORY: Is this
all faith-based?
>>PERRY: Oh, not at all.
No.
Raymond is not what I
call a Bible thumper.
>>NOORY: No.
>>PERRY: At all.
>>NOORY: He's not.
Never has been.
>>PERRY: No.
But he has a really
strong base in philosophy,
and he feels that the
proof of life after death
will come from
philosophy, not science.
>>NOORY: And he's
very convincing.
If you had to take
this into court,
he's the guy you'd want to
bring in there with you.
>>PERRY: I would think so, yeah.
>>NOORY: What's a shared
death experience, Paul?
>>PERRY: It's when
a person who is well
shares the death experience
of a person who's dying.
And what that means is
there's a number of types of--
>>NOORY: Give us an example.
>>PERRY: --shared
death experiences.
But what that means is that we
have some examples where there
have been families with
eight or more people,
for instance, who are at
the deathbed of a loved one,
and they will all experience
the same experience
that he might be describing.
You know, I just--
I just saw my wife,
and they'll be seeing--
they'll be seeing that.
They'll be seeing
his life review.
People reliving a person's
life review with them
is very common.
>>NOORY: Are these shared
death experiences common?
>>PERRY: They're way more
common than I thought they were.
And oftentimes, they have
slipped definition in the past.
And so they don't show
up in any medical books.
They aren't called
shared death experiences.
Until about 10 years
ago, Raymond and I
decided to write a book on
shared death experiences,
and we wrote just a tiny book
called "Glimpses of Eternity."
>>NOORY: Well, we've
got a clip of you
and Dr. Moody talking about
these shared death experiences.
>>PERRY: Sure.
What I find exciting
about the shared death
experience is that
many of the traits
of the near-death experience
are the same as the traits
of the shared death experience,
which means in a lot of ways,
the research merges.
>>RAYMOND MOODY: Oh, yes.
There is a complete overlap
between the elements
of what we already know as
the near-death experience
and what we now know are
shared death experiences.
They have the same elements.
People who are at the bedside
of the dying, for example,
tell us that however
articulate they may be,
that they just
simply have no words
for what they experienced.
But very often, they
talk about a sound
around the bedside of the dying,
very often beautiful music.
They talk about this light.
Very often, I've
heard people tell me
that they feel that they
accompanied their dying loved
one partway toward this light.
They may have accounts of seeing
the relatives of the deceased
around the bedside of the
dying, or in this light,
taking the dying person away.
And most remarkably
of all, Paul,
I have an appreciable
number of cases
of people who tell me
that they empathically
co-lived the panoramic life
review of the person who
was dying.
And to add all this
up, what this amounts
to is a positive refutation,
I would say, of the notion
that near-death
experiences are simply
the hallucinatory
effects of brain damage
in effect of the dying person,
because if that were true,
if these near-death
experiences were simply
the biochemistry of the brain
going berserk in a dying brain,
why would the bystanders have
identically the same stories?
>>PERRY: Sure.
>>MOODY: And these
stories are nothing new.
They go back into remote times.
And I have been hearing
these since 1972.
Actually, it was the
first one I heard.
>>PERRY: See, that's
one of the things
that I find most exciting
about near-death experiences
and shared death experiences, is
that they're as old as mankind.
>>MOODY: Oh, yes.
>>PERRY: And what you've
done is you've essentially
dissected these experiences
so people can understand them
and they can be studied for
their component parts, right?
>>MOODY: That's
absolutely right.
>>PERRY: But in fact,
it's not something
you made up or created.
It's just something
that's been--
that you were really the
first one to take a look at.
>>NOORY: He's so spot-on Paul.
Shared death
experiences may indeed
be the evidence
you're looking for
to prove the existence of it.
>>PERRY: I definitely
think they are.
It's interesting when he talks
about the history of shared
death experiences, because they
go all the way back to Plato.
If you read Plato's "Republic,"
in the end, he deals with--
>>NOORY: He had one of those.
Yeah.
>>PERRY: He had a guy in
there named the soldier of Er,
and the soldier of
Er was supposedly
killed on the battlefield.
But as they were about to burn
all these bodies of soldiers
who'd been killed, he
came out of the crowd.
He got up and started talking
about what he had shared
with other people during death.
>>NOORY: It is an amazing
phenomenon, isn't it?
How prevalent is it?
>>PERRY: We don't know.
I mean, with a
near-death experience--
>>NOORY: I mean,
we know it happens.
>>PERRY: Yeah, it
definitely happens.
And that's the thing.
That's the big difference
between near-death experiences
and shared death, but let's
deal with that for a minute.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>PERRY: For every 100 people
who have a heart attack where
they have a cardiac
arrest, 15 to 20 of them
have a near-death experience.
But we don't know
how many have had
shared death experiences because
there's no study on that.
It's going to take a lot more
time now to build up cases
and to find--
and to do the research on those.
It's more difficult to research
a shared death experience.
>>NOORY: The person
doing the sharing
with the person who had
the death experience,
do they necessarily have
to be close to that person?
>>PERRY: No.
Originally, we
thought that they had
to be a loved one of
the person who dies,
but now they're just
coming out of the woodwork.
Doctors are talking about
shared death experiences.
They're talking about
aspects of death.
They've opened up the definition
of shared death experience,
actually.
>>NOORY: What is it that
kicks it into high gear,
makes it happen?
>>PERRY: Don't know that.
>>NOORY: There's got to be
a catalyst to it somehow.
>>PERRY: It's exasperating, OK?
Because one thing is it's nice
to be at the bedside of someone
who's dying.
There appears to
be more when you're
at the bedside than
a precognitive--
>>NOORY: You have to
be close by physically?
>>PERRY: That's what
it appears to be.
There were studies
done on these--
on some of these, a
different angle on them
in the 19th century by the
Society for Psychical Research.
And what they did was
they put out feelers
to people who had died
with their loved ones,
and they said, we want
to know what happened,
if anything that could fit into
a paranormal category happened.
And what they found was that
people were seeing light,
they were seeing mist, and
they were hearing music.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>PERRY: So there's
all these great reports
from the 19th
century that people
talk about being at the
bedside of a loved one
and they would hear
a mysterious music,
and no one could find the music.
The music seemed to just
emanate from the air.
And sometimes it
would last for days.
>>NOORY: There's about seven
different sides of shared death
experiences.
Do you know what they are?
Can you--
>>PERRY: I do.
I do.
And I have a cheat
sheet on it, so I'll--
>>NOORY: Let's go
through each one.
>>PERRY: OK.
A confirmable
out-of-body experience.
Seeing light, mist, and
music at a person's bedside.
There's one called
terminal lucidity,
and we'll discuss
that in a while.
That's a fairly new experience.
People who are transformed by
their near-death experience.
The key there is, we
aren't transformed,
but we see the
transformation in them.
So we have to be able to witness
the effect of their death
experience.
>>NOORY: Is that
an immediate thing?
>>PERRY: Oftentimes, it is.
And oftentimes it goes on.
It never leaves them.
So for example, just
two days ago I was at--
I was talking to an
emergency room nurse
at the Mayo Clinic in
Scottsdale, and I said,
have you ever heard of
a near-death experience?
And she said, yeah.
And she told about a
patient she had had 10 or 15
years ago who had
a cardiac arrest,
and when he came
out of it, he talked
about the power of this light.
He said, he couldn't get
the light out of his head
that he saw.
She then talked to
him again a week
or so ago during a
checkup, and he started
talking again about the light.
He started weeping, how much
it had changed his life.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
What else is out there?
>>PERRY: OK.
So this is a great one.
Divine creativity.
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>PERRY: We have a great
example of that in the book.
We have two, actually.
This one is from an orthopedic
surgeon in Syracuse named Tony
Cicoria, and he was
out playing golf,
and he realized it was Sunday,
and he had to call his mother.
He always called his
mother on Sunday.
So he got to a payphone,
and he calls her up.
>>NOORY: This is
pre-cell phones, I guess.
>>PERRY: Pre-cell phones.
I don't think the audience knows
what a payphone is, but anyway.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: I think there's
two left in the country.
>>PERRY: Yeah, right.
Anyway, he gets
on this payphone,
and he's struck by lightning.
The lightning hit him
in the side of the face
and came out his foot.
And he had a classic
near-death experience.
The woman who was waiting for--
to make a call behind
him luckily was a nurse
and she CPR'd him back to life.
>>NOORY: Sheesh.
He'd be dead.
>>PERRY: He would
have been dead.
So he spent a week or
so in the hospital,
and about two weeks later
he said he had this urge
to play the piano.
That's all he wanted to
do is play the piano.
And he had had piano
lessons as a child,
but nothing since then.
And he bought a
piano, and then he
started to have dreams of
playing in concert halls.
>>NOORY: Was he Mozart, or what?
>>PERRY: Well, probably Mozart.
He's probably there already.
Anyway, he started
studying piano,
and since then he's
played at Lincoln Center.
He's played at concert halls
in Germany, Austria, France.
And he's still a surgeon, but
he's a remarkable pianist.
And it's because of this event.
It's a share-- we call it
a shared death experience
because we can all see the
change that took place.
>>NOORY: It's dramatic.
>>PERRY: Yeah, it's
very, very dramatic.
We can't, of course,
experience the same desire
to play the piano.
>>NOORY: What other
possibilities?
>>PERRY: Precognitive
experiences.
Melvin Morse, one of the
doctors I've written books with,
he woke up in the
middle of the night
when he was in his residency,
and standing at the foot
of his bed was his father.
>>NOORY: Who had died?
>>PERRY: Well, he
didn't know it.
>>NOORY: Oh, he didn't know it?
>>PERRY: And his
father said, you need
to call your mother right away.
I've left messages for you.
And she couldn't
get through to him
because he had
turned his phone off.
And so he calls his mother,
and his mother tells him,
your father just died.
Now, that's a very typical
precognitive experience.
>>NOORY: And he's saying,
that's impossible, Mom.
Dad was right here.
>>PERRY: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>PERRY: And I had
another one with--
I can't tell you her name,
but a really big-time producer
in Hollywood.
And she was on the East
Coast visiting her boyfriend.
She started to get
nervous and edgy
and started to think
about her family.
And she's in bed with this
friend of mine, Barry,
and he was nervous.
He started to get nervous.
And all of a sudden, the
father appeared above them.
>>NOORY: Hovering?
>>PERRY: Hovering above them and
just hovering, saying nothing.
And so she-- after
he disappeared,
she immediately called her
mother, and her mother in LA
said that her father had died.
As with most of
these experiences,
it didn't scare her at all.
She said--
>>NOORY: They seem very
comfortable with this.
>>PERRY: They're
comfortable with it.
Even though it
sounds really freaky,
to the person who experiences
it, it's generally not.
And she said, I was always
comfortable with my father.
We were very close.
So where else would he go?
>>NOORY: Our friend
Raymond Moody
talked about the first
time he was convinced
about life after death.
>>MOODY: About two years ago,
I had an experience that really
brought me to the point where
I had to just sort of go on
and say, well, yeah, apparently
there is life after death.
And there are other
cases like this,
but I will use an illustrative
one to illustrate the problem.
So about two years ago, I met
this really interesting guy
who's an artist who had a
near-death experience when
he was in a horrific car crash.
And he lost one leg and his
wife was killed instantly
in the accident.
But he was so moved and changed
by this near-death experience
he had that he
started writing it up,
which I encouraged him
to do, my thinking being
that artists process things
by that kind of activity.
So I thought it would
be a good thing for him.
So about two years ago, he
sent me his finished book,
which was really good.
Then less than two
weeks later, he
called me back and said that in
reading through his own book,
he had mentioned the name
of the trauma surgeon
who saved his life.
So he thought, well,
this is kind of impolite.
So he contacted
the trauma surgeon
and invited him to lunch.
And when the doctor came, he
related to him the near-death
experience he had had,
whereupon the doctor said--
after becoming very
solemn said, yeah, well,
when you were in
the operating room,
I was in contact with
your wife, that he
felt the presence of the wife.
And then as this came
forward, then the nurse
spoke up who was
involved and reported
the same kind of experience.
So at that point
in my thinking, I'm
trying to put this case
together and to come up
with some other scenario
that doesn't involve
the notion of an afterlife.
I consciously felt myself trying
to run away and rationalize
and escape rather
than just saying
what seems to be
straightforwardly the case.
So this has brought me
around to the opinion--
or not so much as the
opinion as the assessment,
if I can put it that way,
the assessment that there's
life after death.
>>NOORY: Isn't he soothing?
>>PERRY: He's
wonderful to talk to.
Absolutely wonderful.
>>NOORY: Yeah, I
mean, he really makes
you feel as if the death
experience is pleasant.
>>PERRY: Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: He's one of a kind.
>>PERRY: You know,
what's interesting here
is that you hear a shared
death experience that
seems impossible.
This one seemed impossible.
And then you start to hear the
same type somewhere else right.
So for example,
Raymond was in Italy,
and he was giving
a conference there.
And when he finished, a doctor
pulled him aside and said,
I've had this experience, and I
don't know what to make of it.
And he was doing a routine
surgery on somebody,
if there is such a
thing, and the man coded.
His heart stopped.
>>NOORY: He was dying.
>>PERRY: And the doctor
immediately started to CPR him,
and he went on for quite a
while, and then he decided--
>>NOORY: It's useless.
Yeah.
>>PERRY: Be useless.
So he stopped.
And into the operating room
blasting through the door
was the man's wife.
And she said, keep pumping.
He just talked to me--
he just talked to me
in the waiting room.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>PERRY: He came to see me and
said, tell him to keep going.
>>NOORY: Don't give up.
>>PERRY: So the doctor
kept going and--
>>NOORY: Brought him back?
>>PERRY: --he was revived.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>PERRY: So in that case of
a shared death experience,
you have at least
three witnesses,
not counting the people who
were in the operating room.
>>NOORY: Paul, what
is terminal lucidity?
>>PERRY: That's-- it's
kind of fascinating.
It has been around for
thousands of years.
But the problem
with a lot of these
is nobody has ever
named or defined them,
so doctors don't
pick up on them.
And no one-- no one
categorized-- they
aren't categorized.
No one keeps records
on them, on and on.
So that's all changed in
the last 10 years or so.
>>NOORY: What's it mean, though?
Terminal lucidity?
>>PERRY: Well, it
means-- it just
it's a play off its own words.
Terminal, it's someone who's
terminal, dying, and possibly
has no brain waves.
>>NOORY: Or has died.
>>PERRY: Pretty much.
And they become lucid.
They become lucid again.
They get all their energy back.
They start talking like they
never were close to death
to begin with.
They get up.
I've actually
witnessed one myself.
>>NOORY: What gives
them that burst?
>>PERRY: Well, that isn't
known, but then they usually
die within hours, which is
disappointing for their family
if their family's there, because
the old person has come back.
>>NOORY: They peak and
then they die again?
>>PERRY: They peak
and they die again.
Sometimes they last--
I think the longest
one I've heard
lasted maybe about two days.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
But this time,
the death is real.
>>PERRY: This time
That's correct.
But there's an unknown
source for the energy.
And because of that, the
National Institutes of Health
have started
researching, the NIH
started researching terminal
lucidity because so many people
who have Alzheimer's
experience it,
and so many people who have
brain tumors experience it.
And they want to
know what it is,
if there's some way they
can draw on that energy
to get people past
Alzheimer's, for instance.
>>NOORY: Is there a
commonality among these people?
>>PERRY: No.
No, they can be very old people.
They can be young people.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: The episodes
are different?
>>PERRY: Episodes are different.
The one I witnessed before
it was even named-- it
wasn't named until 10
years ago, actually.
>>NOORY: Well, how
does this relate
to out-of-body experiences?
>>PERRY: It doesn't
necessarily relate
to out-of-body experiences.
The one I saw was a man in
a hospital in Scottsdale,
and I was visiting a friend
across the hall from this guy.
This guy was-- he had dementia.
They said he was going
to die within hours.
>>NOORY: The guy
in the other room?
>>PERRY: In the other room.
They said he was going
to die within hours.
His family had a vigil going on.
And then they went home.
They went home to bed.
And the next morning,
I came there,
and he was standing
on top of his bed
with his family
sitting around him.
They're all weeping.
He's talking and talking
and making sense and talking
about family business
and how wonderful
it is to make a comeback--
>>NOORY: Standing up in bed?
>>PERRY: Standing up in bed.
And then he passed away.
Then within an hour
or so, he died.
>>NOORY: Why did they
die so quickly after--
>>PERRY: They know so little--
they know so little about this.
>>NOORY: Is it the
dying process that makes
them revive for one last stand?
>>PERRY: They can't say.
What the people in our
field say is that--
and there's a lot of
people in our field
with this particular--
with terminal lucidity-- is
that somehow, consciousness
has separated from the body, and
that consciousness is now alive
again where the brain is dead
in the person who's had it.
And it's now the
outside consciousness
that's doing the speaking,
doing the communicating.
>>NOORY: Luis Minero shared some
of his out-of-body experiences
with the souls from
Gaia's "Open Minds."
>>LUIS MINERO: Just seeing the
preparation that some people
undergo before being reborn,
because there are many people--
and many people I would
say, when they are here
in the physical reality they
feel like they were born
to do something, like they have
a life purpose, a life task,
you know?
And to a very great
extent, it seems
that that feeling comes because
they prepared themselves
for those tasks or lessons or--
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Previously.
>>MINERO: Previously,
before being born, you know?
So it is interesting
to leave the body
and to see those people
preparing for those tasks.
>>MEREDITH: Oh, tell
us what that's like.
[LAUGHS]
>>MINERO: Some of
those realities--
first of all, some
of those, they
can look like almost
like a university class,
like a course that
people are undertaking.
And there are classes in
some of these dimensions,
basically for any topic to
try to understand deeper
the physical body or the
energetic body, for example,
or trying to study concepts
more like ethics and openness
and assistance.
It's a very, very
big thing, just
helping contributing
with the world.
So just trying to
understand the value of,
OK, I have some
resources or I produce
some resources in my work.
Is it OK for me to give them to
somebody else for contribution?
And how much?
Or how much is my capacity
to be able to contribute
with the world?
I say this because
of course, maybe
for some people
this seems obvious,
but for other people they
think, wait a second.
Whatever I produce,
I want to keep.
And to a certain
extent, when you
leave the body, one of the--
I'm here going to start mixing
a lot of topics if that's OK.
>>MEREDITH: That's
fine, go for it.
>>MINERO: One of the
things that happens
is that you bump into
the spirit guides,
and then you start
realizing, look.
These individuals
are donating so much
of their resources,
time, knowledge--
>>MEREDITH: Energy.
>>MINERO: --energy.
And it's not like anybody's
paying them for that
or anybody's--
or somebody's telling them,
hey, you have to go help them.
So somehow in the
evolution of the soul,
they learned at some moment,
look, contribution, assistance
is a very big thing.
It's a very big
part of evolution.
So many people are
preparing themselves
or are trying to
study and understand
more this idea of
contribution and assistance.
And when they come to
their physical life,
they're trying to
put it into practice.
>>NOORY: Tell me
more about what you
think about that experience.
>>PERRY: Well, you
know, [LAUGHS] I
wrote a book a couple years
ago called "Dying to Wake Up,"
and it was with an Indian
doctor, Rajiv Parti.
>>NOORY: I like that title.
>>PERRY: Yeah, it's
a wonderful title.
And Raj had an infection
in his abdomen,
and it had seeped
out into his body.
He was coming down--
he was getting sepsis
and he was close to dying.
And he had a near-death
experience at the time
that he was at UCLA
hospital and they
were cleaning--
swabbing his insides out
to get rid of the infection.
>>NOORY: And he dies.
>>PERRY: He dies.
And while he's on
the other side,
he's greeted by two angels.
>>NOORY: I could
see that happening.
>>PERRY: And the
angels spoke to him.
They told him-- they told
him what to do with his life.
He was an anesthesiologist
and he owned a pain clinic.
And they said, you need to
quit being an anesthesiologist
and quit being involved
in pain clinics
and you need to start practicing
consciousness-based medicine.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>PERRY: But they
didn't tell him
what consciousness-based
medicine is.
>>NOORY: He had to figure
that out on his own?
>>PERRY: That's
what they told him.
They said, you have to
figure this out on your own.
And since then, he is able to
meditate these angels back,
and he communes with these
angels in person at least
once a week--
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>PERRY: --where he meditates.
>>NOORY: When you wrote the
book "Proof" with Raymond Moody,
did you learn things about
Raymond you didn't know before?
>>PERRY: I did.
I actually did.
I learned a really
interesting story.
It's a precognitive
experience, and it
happened-- he said it was
the worst day of his life
and the most amazing
day of his life.
>>NOORY: Worst day of his life.
What happened to him?
>>PERRY: Well, his
wife was pregnant,
and they were about to
have a child sometime
within the next couple of weeks.
And he said at
exactly the same time
in the middle of the
night, they both sat
up and recited the same
dream, that their child
was going to be--
was going to die.
She would lose the child.
>>NOORY: Oh my god, what
a horrible thing to feel.
>>PERRY: And he said that
within two or three days,
that's exactly what happened.
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh.
Child died?
>>PERRY: Child died.
That's the most amazing--
and I can see why it would be--
>>NOORY: And how do
you explain this?
>>PERRY: I-- well,
the way I explain it--
and I think it's the way a
lot of other people explain it
because we just
can't figure it out--
is that there's some
kind of an energy
release at the point of
death, and that energy release
goes out to people.
>>NOORY: But he picked this
up before the death, right?
>>PERRY: Well, it was a
precognitive experience.
That's true.
He picked it up before,
but that all fits
into the whole field of
shared death experiences.
>>NOORY: See, my theory
is, Paul, that we
are in a wireless network.
We're all connected,
you to me, me to you,
you to Dannion Brinkley.
Everybody's connected.
And when you realize
that you're on that link,
that wavelength, all
these things happen,
whether it's precognition
about an event or a person.
Whatever it is, you're there.
You're already--
and it's happening.
>>PERRY: Well, that fits into
another belief that a lot
of the researchers have, and
that is that it's-- they call
it the background theory.
And the background theory is
that we get so much information
into our brain on a daily
basis that we can't--
that what happens
at a point of death
is somehow that information
gets filtered down
to what is really
important, which
in this case-- in these cases
would be the death of a loved
one or the death of
someone who's close to you.
>>NOORY: Paul, what
is psychomanteum?
>>PERRY: A psychomanteum is
something the Greeks used,
ancient Greeks, where they
would have a warren of caves,
and people would go in and
they would spend hours,
they would spend days.
There's record of
people spending
months in these dark caves to
become totally desensitized
and--
>>NOORY: Putting them
on a different level.
>>PERRY: Yes.
And then when they were
ready, priests would come in,
and they would decide
that certain people were
ready to go into the gazing
room, crystal gazing room.
Or in this case, it was water.
>>NOORY: The gazing room, huh?
>>PERRY: So you would
have a room that was high.
It was high.
And in the middle was
a big bronze cauldron
filled with water and then
topped off with olive oil.
And when it would still, people
would gaze into the cauldron,
and they would think
about the loved one
that they wanted to see
to cure their grief.
Because grief-- most
people have grief.
The first thing they ask
is for five more minutes.
I just want five more minutes
with the person who just died.
And so this would give them
five more minutes, if not more.
They would gaze into
the water and they
would see their loved one.
Sometimes they reported
that a loved one
would come out of the water.
They would talk to them or
they would psychically connect.
So Raymond studied this.
Raymond went to Greece
and he looked at-- there's
a lot of these oracles.
He went there and he
studied all the oracles.
Studied all the writing on it.
And then he went
back home to Alabama
and created his own
psychomanteum in a dark room
with a mirror that's offset
a little bit so you're
staring into a clear depth,
and a couple candles.
And he would prepare the
people for the psychomanteum.
He would do it by
having them bring
photographs of loved ones.
He would talk to them
for sometimes hours.
He would-- it was
a no-caffeine day.
No one could have any caffeine.
They would go out
and take a walk.
Raymond's a big believer in
walking stirring up things
mentally.
>>NOORY: In those
videos, he seemed like--
>>PERRY: Oh, yeah.
And then they would
come back and they
would sit in the psychomanteum
and stare at the mirror,
gaze at the mirror, and hope
that they saw a relative
or whoever it was
they wanted to see.
Most people do.
>>NOORY: They see somebody?
>>PERRY: Oh, they see--
they'll generally see the
person they came to see.
Sometimes they don't.
They see another person.
Some of the people,
though, claim
that the person they wanted
to see comes out of the mirror
and will come out.
And they can feel
them sometimes.
They'll put they'll put
their hands on them.
Other people have no experience
in the psychomanteum,
but when they go back
to the hotel they're
visited by the person that
they wanted to see in the--
>>NOORY: Well,
speaking of the hotel,
we've got a couple pictures
I want to look at and have
you explain to us.
>>PERRY: Sure.
>>NOORY: Here's orbs
in a hotel room.
>>PERRY: Right.
There's--
>>NOORY: What is this?
Is it just a refraction?
>>PERRY: No, this is at
3:30 in the afternoon.
And a woman came from
Argentina with her sister.
They wanted to see the woman's
daughter who had passed away,
like, 90 days earlier.
So they went through the
psychomanteum process
and nothing happened,
so they decided
to go back to the hotel.
And they went back.
They were sitting in
their room talking
about what had transpired--
why nothing had transpired.
And all of a sudden,
there are-- three orbs
appeared in the room.
And this is one of them.
It was at 3:30 in the afternoon.
It was not at night.
It wasn't at a creepy hour.
It was middle of the day.
And it started to move around
the room, these three orbs did.
>>NOORY: How big were they?
>>PERRY: They were about the
size of a bigger beach ball.
And this one came over and
fixed in front of the woman,
and the woman felt
that she could talk,
communicate with her daughter
that was inside this orb.
Luckily, her sister
snapped a couple of photos.
You can see she's
no photographer.
But--
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
>>PERRY: --she
took these photos.
And to me, I've been trying to
convince-- here's another one.
Here's two, actually.
One on top of the other.
>>NOORY: You mentioned
Raymond Moody's psychomanteum,
so let's take a look.
>>PERRY: Oh, yeah, that's great.
>>MOODY: Independently,
all over the world
and literally from
prehistoric times,
people discovered
that when they gazed
into a clear pond of
water, they would see,
of course, their own reflection.
But as they gazed
longer and longer,
they would see
other things appear,
specifically spirits, sometimes
spirits of their departed loved
ones.
Pretty soon, they
realized that it
didn't have to be a clear pond.
They could do the same
thing with a polished metal
bowl filled with olive oil and
placed in an illuminated room
by candlelight.
Then later still
they learned they
could do the same thing by
gazing into a polished mirror.
Pretty soon, this insight
was institutionalized
into amazing places called
oracles of the dead,
most famously in Greece as
described in "The Odyssey"
by Homer.
People would take
long pilgrimages
to these oracles of the
dead and the expectation
of seeing and visiting
and interacting
with their departed loved ones.
This knowledge was
all over the world,
notably in Japan, for example,
where the oracles of the dead
were built over
clear ponds of water
with high arched
bridges over the ponds.
And people would sit around
on the shore of the ponds
reflecting and
talking and thinking
about their departed loved ones.
Then they would walk
out over these bridges
and gaze down into
the water, and they
would see the spirits of
their departed loved ones
rise up from the water
and sometimes have
lengthy and elaborate
conversations with them.
In the modern world, we've
rediscovered how to do this,
and this is the amazing process
called the psychomanteum.
>>NOORY: Fascinating
room there that--
>>PERRY: Yeah, it's
quite a room, actually.
>>NOORY: Is it scary?
>>PERRY: No, it's not.
It's very hopeful.
When my father died, I went into
it, and I had an experience.
>>NOORY: Can you feel
something when you're in there?
>>PERRY: It's really--
it's very different.
I mean with my particular
instance, I was seated,
looking at the mirror.
And all of a sudden,
I was on a pier
with my father looking
out at the water.
The water was very dark
and metallic-looking.
And we looked at each
other, but said nothing,
and then it was over.
But when it was over,
I had this sense
that he was in a good place.
>>NOORY: Paul, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>PERRY: Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: And good luck with
Dr. Moody in your book "Proof:
7 Reasons to Believe
in Life After Life."
>>PERRY: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Shared death
experiences, they're
happening more than
I ever thought.
I just hope one day
when it happens to me,
I'm on the other
end of the sharing.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]